---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/daily/2022-05-03/"}
---

# 2022-05-03

## Tasks due today

<div><div class="dataview dataview-error-box"><p class="dataview dataview-error-message">Dataview: No results to show for task query.</p></div></div>

## Log
### [[IS408 Presentation Assignment - Country Analysis\|IS408 Presentation Assignment - Country Analysis]]
- IS408 Midterm today
- Country Case Study
	- Presentation Assignment
- Content
	- Brief History: Only include relevant things to what you're going to talk about. Only things that matter to the development of the country
	- Geography and Climate: how does the advantages or disadvantages from it help or make its development worse
	- Economic Performance: what sector is important.
		- Be specific, not just 'industry'
	- Poverty figure: 5-10 years.
		- Changes
		- Reasons why it changed that way
	- Education: structure, is the way the government organized it make sense?
		- Access & quality
		- Costs
	- Healthcare:
		- Is there enough infrastructure
		- quality of health
		- Quality of life in general, neutritions
	- Population
		- past [[Ethnic Conflicts\|ethnic conflicts]]
		- Who controls natural resources
		- Are there tension between social groups?
		- Birthrate?
		- How having many or few ethnic group affect economic growth. Why?
	- Insitutions
		- Effective law enforcement
		- Intellectual property
		- Monopoly on violence
		- Enough infrastructure to attract FDI
		- Political stability
		- Civil society, voice of community in government 


- Deadlines
- [ ] [[2022-05-17\|2022-05-17]]: submission of IS408 Presentation 1st draft in hard copy
- [ ] [[daily/2022-05-24\|2022-05-24]]: submission of IS408 Presentation final draft in hard copy

>[!tip]
>- Can rearrange any of the points in whatever order
>- Select your own country (by group)
>	- Low and middle income countries only
>	- Don't select the same country
>- Don't write too much, don't make it so complex.
>- Presentation
>	- Everyone must answer questions
>	- 1 or 2 members do presentation
>	- Everyone in the group must understand all parts of the assignment
>		- One question asked to the group will be answered by all members separately
>	- Don't divide the assignment so separately
>- Print hard copy in black and white or in color, which would be better for your assignment

- What are the core values of development?
- What are the challenges that stops developing states from rapid development depending on the local context?
- What does Amartya Sen's Capability to Function tell us about development? Does money matter? Why/Why not?