---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/daily/2022-07-19/"}
---

# 2022-07-19

## Tasks due today

<div><div class="dataview dataview-error-box"><p class="dataview dataview-error-message">Dataview: No results to show for task query.</p></div></div>



```todoist 
{ 
"name": "Todoist", "filter": "2022-07-19" 
} 
```

## Log
- Template 1: My family is currently doing well. We have all taken the COVID-19 vaccine. I didn't feel any side effects from the vaccine at all. All my community members are vaccinated as well. Even while vaccinated, we still practice COVID-19 safety measures. My school was shut down twice from the pandemic. I had to study through a phone and write on my notebook. Now, though, we study physically again. Classes are 3 hours a day with 25 students per class. I am currently in the sixth grade and I was very happy when I first went back to meet my friends and teachers. Finally, I want to wish you good health.
- Template 2: First of all, my family and I are doing well. During this COVID-19 pandemic, we still managed to plant lower rice and vegetables on our own lands. Every day, my family finds fish and pick herbs for cooking. Recently, RFCD, a partner organization of ActionAid, has taught children like me how to draw. We also received gifts like snacks, and supplies by the end of it. I was so happy about that. Whenever the COVID-19 pandemic ends, I'd like to go back to school. I'd also love to visit Phnom Penh on the National Water Festival. Furthermore, I was so happy I have been vaccinated because I'm safer from the Coronavirus. Finally, I want to thank my sponsor for helping me.