---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/daily/2022-06-27/"}
---

# 2022-06-27

## Tasks due today

<div><div class="dataview dataview-error-box"><p class="dataview dataview-error-message">Dataview: No results to show for task query.</p></div></div>



```todoist 
{ 
"name": "Todoist", "filter": "2022-06-27" 
} 
```

## Log
- 3 Comprehension questions (69 marks)
	- Can be very easy
		- Ex: What is terrorism?
	- Harder
		- Ex: Explain right definition of genocide.
		- Compare and contrast
- 1 Essay (31 marks)
## Chapters to focus on (may or may not appear)
- [[War\|War]]: 5 traditions of war
	- Eschatological, political, Cataclysmic, New War, Spectator-Spot/Western Way of war
	- Clausewitz or Political Tradtions of War
		- Trinity and political objectives ( the picture)
		- Limited vs Total War
			- Demand of something another party won't ever give up
			- Who wins
	- Mary Kaldor's criticism of Clausewitz: her is not the best definition of new war
	- Case study: [[Ukraine-Russia Conflict\|Ukraine-Russia Conflict]]
- Terrorism
	- Characteristics of Terrorism
	- Types of Counter Terrorism
	- Current Event
		- Examples of terrorist groups and tactics, non specific group (you can bring your own example)
		
<div class="transclusion internal-embed is-loaded"><a class="markdown-embed-link" href="/terrorism/#fda2e6" aria-label="Open link"><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="24" height="24" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" stroke="currentColor" stroke-width="2" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round" class="svg-icon lucide-link"><path d="M10 13a5 5 0 0 0 7.54.54l3-3a5 5 0 0 0-7.07-7.07l-1.72 1.71"></path><path d="M14 11a5 5 0 0 0-7.54-.54l-3 3a5 5 0 0 0 7.07 7.07l1.71-1.71"></path></svg></a><div class="markdown-embed">



- What are the major terrorist groups in the world? 

</div></div>

- [[WMD\|WMD]]
	- What are the difference btween them in terms of characteristics and effectiveness
	- What are the effects of nuclear weapons?
	- Why do states wnat to have nuclear weapons
		- Realism
		- Bureaucratic theory
		- Constructivism
		- Example of each theory and assessment
		- Bring up a case, and pick whichever the best theory to explain this case
- Why new war occurs, why we should pay attention?
	- Trick question
	- Technology
	- Politics/Diplomacy
- Characteristics of New War, if it occurs what does it look like?
	- Asymmetricalization of war: small groups fights large opponent, guerilla tactics, blend in with population
	- Privatization
	- De-militarization
- Result of new war
	- Counterinsurgency/War of pacification
	- War of Devastation: destroy everything
	- Resource war
  - Definition of genocide and conceptual discussion of failed states (not really needed, can skip)
  - What is [[Ethnicity\|ethnicity]] (important)
	  - Borderline definition by Anthony Smith
  - Where does ethnicity come from?
	  - Ancient Hartred, Instrumental, Mth0symbol complex
	  - Entrenched hatred turns into ethnic discrimination
  - How to resolve ethnic conflict
	  - Power-sharing: don't work, but they still do it
	  - Partition
	  - Social construction of peaceful ideas

- [[Coercion Strategies\|Coercion Strategies]] [[Deterrence\|Deterrence]]
	- Status quo
	- Use of force
	- Timing
- What are the ingredients of successful ocercive diplomacy
	- Credibility of the coercer
	- Target audience
	- Resistance cost
	- Enforcement cost
	- Compliance cost
- Nuclear deterrence
	- First strike
	- Case study: Russia's nuclear threats, did it work?



