---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/daily/2022-06-13/"}
---

# 2022-06-13

## Tasks due today

<div><div class="dataview dataview-error-box"><p class="dataview dataview-error-message">Dataview: No results to show for task query.</p></div></div>



```todoist 
{ 
"name": "Todoist", "filter": "2022-06-13" 
} 
```

## Log
5. How does the microeconomic theory of fertility relate to the theory of consumer choice? Do you think that economic incentives and disincentives influence family size decisions? Explain your answer, giving some specific examples of such incentives and disincentives.
	- The microeconomic household theory of fertility assumes Children are a commodity with demand similar to normal goods.
		- The higher the household income, the greater the demand for children.
		- The higher the net price of children, the lower the quantity demanded.
		- The higher the prices of all other goods relative to children, the greater the quantity of children demanded.
		- The greater the strength of tastes for goods relative to children, the fewer children demanded.
	- Economic incentives and disincentives can influence family size. Taxation or benefits on the number of children for each family can influence decisions, especially for poorer families. Japan pays families up to $2,500 for a new child birth, while China had the one child policy, in which it enforced up until recent years.
1. "The world population problem is not just a matter of expanding numbers but also one of rising affluence and limited resources. It is as much as problem caused by developed nations as it is one deriving from developing countries." Comment on this statement.
	- This statement is based on the broader theory with a similar scope to dependency theory which states that 'The argument of population growth being an issue is created by the rich to keep developing countries dependent on the rich'.
	- One of its argument is that The world's resources and environmental destruction is caused by
		- Developed countries consuming 80% of the world's resources. 1 more developed country child = many under-developed country child
		- Instead of the under-developed having less children, the developed should consume less resources
1. List and briefly describe the principle causes of high population growth in developing countries and the major consequences.
	- Causes of population growth
		- Poverty levels are positively correlated population growth according to the Malthusian Population Trap model.
		- Demand for children according to the Microeconomic Household Theory of Fertility depends on
			- Price of children
			- Household income
			- Price of other goods
			- Preference of goods over children
		- Fertility and Mortality rates of children
	- The negative consequences of population growth are
		- Economic Growth: In most emerging nations, fast population growth reduces per capita income growth
		- Poverty and Inequality: The poor, especially women, face the burden of the negative consequences of fast population growth since they are the ones who are displaced from their homes, suffer first from government health and education cuts, and bear the weight of environmental degradation.
		- Education: finance for education for both government and Large families limit ability to educate all of their children.
		- Health of mother and children are threatend due to closely spaced births
		- Food resources are stretched thin for larger population
		- Environmental degradation
		- Illegal and legal international migration

