---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/is-404-reflection-4/"}
---

# IS404-Reflection-4

Class: IS404
Created Time: October 26, 2021 8:44 PM
Database: Assignment Database
Last Edited Time: December 2, 2021 3:36 PM
Status: Done
Type: 📑

Chapter 4 titled 'Identities' defines identity as of ethnicity, tribe, kin, class, caste, gender, and race. It focuses on Identity's role in conflicts and conflict resolution. Identity can mobilize conflicts in ways such as forming intergroups rivalry, mobilization against group injustice, and is embedded in social issues suc has social hierarchy, economic disparities, resource scarcity, and distribution of wealth and power. These mobilization of different identities can come from the polarization process that could materialize as 'radicalization. The chapter details properties and attributes of identity as being derived from distinct cultural creativities, distinctive language or religion, and beliefs. A person's identity is constructed and shaped by their shared environment, experiences, living condition, and social interactions. Collective identity can be affected by elites who shape collective identities by representing groups in political parties for agendas of each group identity. Separate group identities can be formed through such as problems of socio-economic differences, sense of belonging and loyalty to one but not another group, shared psychological suffering, and want for own group's survival. Therefore group boundaries are formed to make distinct one group from another by enlarging in-group and out-group differences while minimizing intra-group differences. However, In post-colonial countries social exclusion could occure where the favored group of the colonial master becomes powerful after their independence. These identity competitions and unlogical indoctrine of hate could turn to 'ethnocentrism', a glorification of in-group values as superior while degrading out-groups' values. This concept is similar to the system of Fascism enacted in both Imperial Italy and Nazi Germany. In these cases, unquestioned authority would not only sustain one's power and regime but also be able to threaten and deter any out-group attackers. However, in-group and out-group differences can be bridged through minimizing differences, equal treatment of both groups, maintaining friendly inter-group relations, and building functional relationships as in the Functionalism theory. From there groups could de-catagorize their differences and re-catagorize on their similarities instead to build new common identity and maintain these commonality and friendliness through institutionalized systems.

From the chapter I understand that identity is a very big reason for many of the conflicts throughout history and even the current world. I notice extreme non-negotiable views of some religions and cultures that make it so two groups cannot co-exist. I believe that the world would be less divisive without religions but it is probably an idealistic view because the extent of religions still in the world during this technological era. I learned that groups will try to radicalize their group's differences from their adversarial group to garner support for their values and against their adversary. However, that makes it so groups develop to not able to co-exist or even start negotiation similar to a zero-sum solution. This pattern appears in political systems and parties as well such as Republican and Liberal parties in the US that are opposed on almost everything to clearly draw a divide between the two groups. However, this polarization makes it so negotiations are more difficult.