---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/is-404-reflection-paper-10/"}
---

# IS404 Reflection Paper 10

Class: IS404
Created Time: December 28, 2021 7:40 PM
Database: Assignment Database
Last Edited Time: February 10, 2022 6:19 PM

# [[CMRAI-C11  Reconciliation\|CMRAI-C11  Reconciliation]]

Chapter 11, named ‘Reconciliation’, talks about the never ending process of reparing relations, emotional, and psychological damage caused by the conflict, violence, and loss after the said conflict has been through negotiation and settlement. Reconciliation can be done by changing the negative attitude, perception, and behavior of the previously conflicting groups by allowing social space for expressing grief and confronting fears, exchange of admission of guilt and forgiveness, and the reciprocity appreciation of each other’s common humanity to co-exist in a shared community. The latter of which is shown in Khmer Rouge’s win-win policy which allowed the country to move on from its horrifying self-genocidal past. Furthermore, injustices, inequality, or any other conflict inducing problem must be addressed before reconciliation progress can be sustained. Reconciliation differs according to the specifics of the conflict such as types: racism, oppression, genocide. Long standing conflicts can cause progress in attitude, values, and capacities to cooperate lessen. Therefore, source of the present conflict must be address to stop it from resurfacing in a future conflict. Governments also have a role of supporting reconciliation efforts by improving democratization, distribution of wealth, and education. Victimization can be a big challenge as aggressors might deny their injustices and commit more aggression. Both parties only think of themselves as the victim while most likely, they are both victims to one another. Non-negotiable psychological tasks might not be solvable on the negotiation table, but through contrition and forgiveness. There are two steps to getting over a conflict. First, parties could remedy past harms by transforming abusive and manipulative relationships to mutually acceptable ones. If the perpetrator is the state, changes in policies and institutions are required. Secondly is looking forward to the restoration of relationship. The serving of justice to at an individual and institutional level is done by first, the instigator acknowledging past misdeeds and the expression of remorse, apology, and offer of compensation. Then their common purposes and interests can be recognized to reconcile their relations. After a conflict reach settlement, post-conflict justice can be attained through retributive justice to search for prosecution and punishment with a judge panel. It seeks justice by compensation and allows the offender to accept and take responsibility for their acts. Furthermore, restitutions can be made as material compensation such as the return of seized land and possessions. While reparations are societal restoration through apology. 

In this chapter, I learned of the issue of victimization that is sensitive about who is responsible as the aggressor or offender. It often leads to shifting blame rather than any party accepting responsibility. I am also reminded that long on-going conflicts make people dehumanize ‘the enemy’ and not consider their interests, needs, values, and their similarities to themselves. It is also clear that sometimes the wrong-doers sometimes does not get punished as the conflict resolution mechanism of reintegrating them back into society such as in the case of Khmer Rouge is a very effective way to rebuild the country as soon as possible.