---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/pai-c02-realism-and-complex-interdependence/"}
---

# PAI-C02: Realism and Complex Interdependence

Class: IS405
Created Time: October 24, 2021 6:55 PM
Database: Evergreen Database
Last Edited Time: October 26, 2021 3:10 PM
Tags: #Interdependence, #Realism
Type: Literature Notes

# PAI - C2: Realism and Complex Interdependence

- **Complex Interdependence (CI)** as opposite argument of Realism's perspective on interdependence
- Realism's argument
    1. State is the only influential actor in international politics & is a unified actor
    2. Force is an effective instrument of policy
    3. Hierarchy of politics is characterized by 'high politics' not 'low politics'
    - Cooperation doesn't last long
- CI argue against all these 3 points
    - Neither is 100% correct all the time, but CI is correct in more cases

# Characteristics of CI

1. Multiple Channels Connect Societies: informal & informal elite arrangement in government
2. Agenda of Interstate relations: that aren't arranged in clear or consistent hierarchy
    - Military doesn't always dominate agenda
3. Military force is not used by governments toward other governments within the region, or on the issues, when complex interdependence prevails.

## The political process of complex interdependence

The three main characteristics of complex interdependence give rise to distinctive political processes, which translate power resources into power as control of outcomes.
In the realist world, military security will be the dominant goal of states.

**Linkage Strategies**
•Goals will therefore vary by issue area under complex interdependence, but so will the distribution of power and the typical political processes.
**Agenda setting**
•The lack of clear hierarchy among multiple issues, leads us to expect that the politics of agenda formation and control will become more important.
•Under complex interdependence we can expect the agendas to be affected by the international and domestic problems created by economic growth and increasing sensitivity interdependence that we described in the last chapter.
**Role of international organizations**
•Governments must organize themselves to cope with the flow of business generated by international organizations.
•By bringing officials together, international organizations help to activate potential coalitions in world politics.