---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/assets/country-re/script/"}
---

# Script

Thailand's latest Gross Domestic Product (GDP) report was in 2018, putting Thailand's economic value to 504,993 million USD. This put Thailand as the 26th largest economies among the 195 countries in the world and the 8th biggest economy in Asia. Thailand was one of the five founding members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, the ASEAN Declaration which created ASEAN, was signed in Bangkok on 8th of August 1967. The country is active in many intergovernmental, regional, and trade organizations around the world. For starters, Thailand is an active participant in the United Nations, having served as both the president of the General Assembly, as a non-permanent member of the Security Council, and also has contributions to peacekeeping operations. Thailand is also part of the International Atomic Energy Agency since it's inception, it aims to manage nuclear technology and nuclear power among nations. Similar to most trading nations, Thailand is apart of the World Trade Organization, which enforces trade rules and solve trade disputes. As for regional matters, Thailand is a member of the Asia Cooperation Dialogue, an organization that helps integrate and connect separate regional organizations in Asia, as well as the Colombo Plan, a regional organization seeking human resource development. Finally, Thailand is part of trade agreements such as the ASEAN Free Trade Area, aiming to support local trade and to integrate with regional and international allies. Thailand is also a member of the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation that aims to promote free trade around the Pacific ocean. Lastly, Thailand is a part of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership or RCEP, however, it is just a proposed free trade agreement and has not been signed yet. 

And this is a list of other organizations, agreements, agencies, and associations that Thailand participates in. As we can see, Thailand nowadays is trying to integrate and grow it's economy.